Even startup ideas that seemingly come out of left field can yield incredible success. Read through this list of startup ideas for instant inspiration and get your creative gears turning. The ideas range from travel-oriented, to writing, and food-based ideas, so you’re bound to find one that works for you.

Organize Specialty Travel Tours
Make a specialized travel tour company to cater to individual lifestyle preferences. A tour startup made for solo travelers, a food-based tour geared towards certain diet preferences, or even an age-based tour company could gain traction across various demographics.

Create an Airport-Centric App
Creating an all-in-one app that allows travelers to navigate unfamiliar airports with real-time information is a relatively untapped startup idea. Though various travel applications exist, an app that shows amenities, TSA line wait times, ground transportation options, and airport maps could be useful to passengers.

Become a Destination Wedding Planner
Take the stress out of wedding planning for couples and travel to exciting places around the globe. If you love exploring, are great under pressure, and don’t mind working long hours, this could be the startup idea for you.

Make Local Guides
Whether or not you consider yourself a local expert, creating local guides can get you familiar with your surroundings and help tourists enjoy off-the-beaten-path experiences in your area. Make themed guides, highlight attractions, and partner with local businesses for advertising opportunities.

Create a Local Grocery Delivery Service
A grocery delivery startup can come with minimal setup costs, as all you need is a vehicle and a cell phone to really get started. Help senior citizens or people that are too busy to shop by offering this community-friendly service. You can even approach grocery stores in your area to see if they’re willing to partner with you to get the service off the ground.

Start an Event Planning Company
Get in touch with your local community by creating an event planning service in your area. Careful research and networking will be key to success, but you can also start an event planning business remotely for ultimate flexibility.

Open a Coworking Space
Capitalize on the rising popularity of remote work by creating a modern coworking space that addresses pain points of entrepreneurs. Pick a convenient location, build it out with highly sought after amenities, and consider local impact.

Start a Meal Prep Business
As proof that we’re busier now than ever before, a whopping 1.9 billion Americans order restaurant takeout for meals.[1] Capitalize on these numbers and start a meal prep service to make people’s lives easier and cater to specialized diets (keto, vegan, Whole30) to appease distinct lifestyles.

Create a Food Waste Solution
Creating a startup focused on reducing food waste could not only earn you some serious funding, but also positively change the food system and help save grocery stores and restaurants money.[2]

Capitalize on Plant-Based Foods
The plant-based market is exploding, with the sale of plant-based foods growing to over $3.7 billion in 2018.[3] Creating a vegan supermarket or making meat-free versions of traditional foods could be the ticket to success for aspiring entrepreneurs.

Start a Dropshipping Business
The ecommerce business model of dropshipping is especially attractive because it doesn’t require you to purchase inventory upfront. Selling higher-end products with low shipping costs could become profitable quickly if you do thorough competition research.

Curate Subscription Boxes
Subscription boxes became a $10 billion business in 2018 and the industry is still set to grow.[4] Pick a niche, and then curate a collection of specialized goods to deliver unique experiences to the modern consumer. Some subscription boxes focus on makeup while others focus on sustainability, find the right starting point for you and run with it.

Sell Zero-Waste Products
Starting a zero-waste company is more than just a trendy thing to do; it can be an ethical, environmentally conscious decision. Selling sustainable products like reusable bags, bamboo toothbrushes, or products with zero-waste packaging could appeal to a growing number of sustainability-focused consumers.

Make Products for Pets
Create innovative pet products to take advantage of the fact that nearly 85 million U.S. households have at least one animal companion.[5] Look into developing toys, accessories, or even clothing for furry friends.

Sell Phone Accessories or Do Repairs
The mobile phone accessories market is on a path to grow to $107.3 billion by 2022.[6] Although it’s a fairly saturated market, there’s still an opportunity for a creative mind to make one-of-a-kind smartphone add-ons. You can also offer services repairing phones on the go so you can help people get their phones working again.

Create Custom Clothing
If you have an eye for fashion, selling custom clothing or offering a tailoring service could be your winning startup idea. The custom clothing industry is gaining popularity and offers room for long-term growth.

Sell Vintage Goods Online
With a $17 billion annual revenue, the used-merchandise industry is profitable and is only set to grow as consumers become disinterested in fast fashion.[7] Consider selling thrifted, vintage, or upcycled items on an ecommerce platform or an app like Poshmark.

Begin Niche Blogging
Find a niche (think e-sports or urban farming) and create engaging content around it. You can earn money through advertising, affiliate links, and even product sales once you build an audience.

Become an Ebook Writer
If you’ve got a way with words, consider becoming a self-published author and selling ebooks on virtual platforms. With the ebook market currently valued at over $15 billion, writing and selling ebooks can be an easy way to become an internet entrepreneur.[8]

Start Ghostwriting
Create content for busy professionals that don’t have the time or the skill to write themselves. If you don’t mind not attaching your name to your writing, ghostwriting is a great way to earn money with little to no startup costs attached.

Become a Resume Writer
Everyone needs a resume, but few people are skilled at or enjoy writing their own. If you’ve got writing experience and are looking to launch a startup with no setup costs, creating a resume-writing service could be the path for you.

Become an Online Coach
If you enjoy helping others achieve their goals and are a people person, this startup idea could be fulfilling for yourself and for your clientele. Start by creating your own YouTube channel and consider breaking into wellness, business, or life coaching.

Start Flipping Websites
Buy an existing website, make improvements on it, and sell it for a profit. You’ll need to understand the market well and have some web development skills, but this can easily be a profitable pursuit.

Become a Web Developer
The need for custom websites isn’t ever going away, and if you know your way around WordPress or know a programming language or two, you can start a profitable website development startup.

Start a Podcast
If you’re deeply knowledgeable or passionate about a subject matter, consider getting into podcast production or hosting. The number of people that listen to podcasts has increased by 20 million in 2019, and it’s an easy way to connect to an audience.[9] Learn about how to start a podcast here.

Be a Social Media Influencer
Influencer marketing is projected to be a $10 billion industry by 2020.[10] Once you find a niche and build a personal brand, amassing a large following on Instagram or YouTube can lead to a solid source of income through influencer marketing.

Create Online Courses
Obscure hobbies can lead to lucrative business ideas if you make them easy for others to learn. If you’d like to teach others but aren’t interested in the coaching route, creating an online course could lead to reliable passive income.

Become a Marketing Consultant
If you’ve got digital marketing chops, help small businesses reach their target audiences by providing SEO, social media, or copywriting services. If you don’t have marketing experience, taking an online course could help get your foot in the door.

Develop an App
If you’ve got a unique idea and the necessary technical skills, creating an app could be your goldmine. It’s also possible to build an app without extensive coding skills, and once it launches, it can bring in passive earnings.

Make a Smart Appliance
Smart accessories and home appliances are all the rage and becoming an important part of daily life for the average consumer. For inspiration, take note of daily tasks at home or at work that would be easier with a smart appliance.

Tap Into Virtual Reality Experiences
VR is the future, and the future is now. Create virtual reality experiences or accessories to tap into an industry that’s projected to grow to a $44.7 billion market by 2024.[11]

Make a Niche Dating Site
The stigma around online dating has decreased over the last decade, so take the opportunity to help others find love. With various dating sites targeted to everyone from sea captains to farmers, there exists market demand for specialty dating options.

Develop a Chatbot
Create a chatbot—which uses artificial intelligence to communicate with people—to help businesses improve their communication. Chatbots have become more popular in recent years, and you can create one without knowing how to code.

Offer Matchmaking Skills
This is like creating a dating site but with a personal touch. If you have a knack for knowing what types of people and which personalities get along well, you might be the perfect person to start matchmaking. You can do this online or meet clients in person as well. Plus you get to make people happy for a living!

Be a Virtual Assistant
Being an online assistant for someone, or starting a company of virtual assistants, can be a huge success. Everyone could use a little extra help and creating a startup focused around getting people that help for the administrative tasks in their lives, professional or personal, can be a huge moneymaker.

Reinvent Exercising
If there’s one thing people get bored with it’s doing the same type of exercise day in and day out to stay healthy. Plenty of people have turned the exercise industry on its head with businesses like CrossFit and Peloton popping up. You can do the same if you have an idea for a new regimen or activity for the exercise enthusiasts.

Eco-Friendly, Health-Friendly Makeup and Beauty Products
As people become more aware of the impact their personal choices have on their health and on the environment, they’re looking for more health and beauty products that are also eco-friendly. Creating safe and ecofriendly products could be a great startup idea filling a gap in the industry.

Learn more about how to start a makeup line here.

Ditch the Restaurant Dream for a Food Truck
Opening a food truck is a great startup idea for entrepreneurs with a background in cooking and a novel idea. It’s less to worry about than an entire restaurant and can be done with just one or two people. If you have a novel idea for a food truck, like one that only sells ice cream sandwiches or only sells french fries with crazy toppings, a food truck is the startup idea for you.

Start a Business for Organizing
Some people are natural-born organizers, their homes are tidy and everything has a place, others aren’t so lucky and have a harder time being organized. So if you have a knack for organizing, you could start a business offering those services to those who need it. Organizing kitchen pantries, closets, bookshelves, and more are all options you could offer customers at your new business.

Interior Design for Your Professionals
Plenty of young professionals want to make their apartments feel like a home but it can be hard to choose the right furniture and make it have a cohesive design when you’ve never bought furniture before and don’t know where to start. If you’ve got an eye for decorating you could start an interior design business offering your services at an hourly rate virtually to young professionals looking for inspiration. It can be as simple as them uploading some images of their new space to your site and you sending back a few links with furniture int heir budget and example images of what the room might look like when it’s finished.

How to Choose a Startup Idea
Before diving headfirst into the most appealing idea you see on this list, there is some work you should do. First, you should make sure there’s an actual demand for the startup ideas or business you want to start, where you want to start it. More than 40% of businesses fail because there isn’t an actual market need for their services or product, don’t become another business tat contributes to this statistic. Do your research and make sure there’s a need for the business you want to start.

One of the other tasks that should be top of mind for you when you’re at the early stages of a startup is writing a business plan. You’re going to need a plan to get funding and to help your business stay on track so the earlier you write it the better.

You should also consider the skills you already have and see how those align with any of the startup business ideas you might go with.

When I was first introduced to the Startup world, the word “pitch” came up in nearly every conversation. It certainly didn’t help the fresh-faced foreigner I was that the term came from Baseball, a sport I have yet to understand.
I’ve listened to hundreds of pitches from Hidden Founders applicants these last 8 months. Most have confessed that they expected more return from their pitching efforts when they started.
I’m hoping some insight will save first time founders time and help them avoid stagnation while trying to involve more and more people in their journey.

THE WHO AND THE WHY
You pitch friends, family and fools initially. Depending on the type of entourage you’ve been blessed with (or the lack of), you decide whether you need that to get constructive feedback or only to practice and test the right wording for what’s coming next.
Who your startup pitches next deserves important attention. Eric Ries and Steve Blank said it best: get out of the building to pitch your startup’s target audience/users. If, instead, you jump straight to CTOs, investors and media you’ll have made the classic noob mistake. For the record, that’s exactly what I did in my first tour as a founder, I get the temptation: don’t do it. Your new entourage now must be your users.

PITCHING YOUR MARKET
In my experience, engaging your market from the get go is the hardest step in a Startup’s life-cycle. This is also exactly why most first time founders avoid it. It takes a lot of maturity to properly handle this phase. Sadly, most will ask themselves the wrong questions. Will the guy I just added on LinkedIn talk to me for 15 minutes? Does he see me as yet another startup-hippie? Is he impressed yet? No? Should I downplay the issue with a “this is just how we will penetrate the market” and that “the product can do so much more than that”? If you go down this path, you’ve lost before you’ve begun. The lesson here is to worry less about your ego and more about the person in front of you. Customer discovery is about listening. Just make sure you don’t mention (or very briefly) the idea about your product while doing so.
Pitching next technical co-founders, business angels, and prolific bloggers from a napkin is a sure way to get permanently written off.

WHAT HAPPENED TO THE NAPKIN?
The napkin is still a great way to capture an idea that spontaneously pops into your head while chatting with your best bud. The problem is: first-timers have a hard time gauging the pitch/expectation ratio.
A quick reminder: the napkin is for friends and family. Animated Mockups and a Business Model Canvas are for target users (low fidelity MVP). An MVP with Traction is for the potential co-founder CTO. A Product/Market fit will get you VCs. The more you go to the right, the more you’ll get what you pitch for:
Image for post

NAPKIN MAXED OUT
The success and attention startups have received in recent years has caused a veritable Gold Rush, and hot trends always attract their share of shady characters who muddy the waters. For founders, this has meant a higher burden of data-driven proof before they can earn a spot in the limelight.
A startup pitch is a request for trust, and trust requires tangible evidence. People you ask to follow you will demand to see progress before committing. Luckily progress is hackable.

If you look on Twitter and in recent articles intrapreneurship may seem like a new concept or "buzzword," but it has actually been around for a while.

The original word “intrapreneur” was coined by Gifford Pinchot III in a 1978 paper written with his wife Elizabeth. It was later popularized by Steve Jobs in a 1985 Newsweek article. Jobs said, “The Macintosh team was what is commonly known as intrapreneurship… a group of people going, in essence, back to the garage, but in a large company.”

Some companies stifle innovation because there often isn’t room for people to explore outside of their job description. However, many of these employees have ideas that could be the next Macintosh or iPhone.

Here are some examples of organizations that allowed their employees ideas come to light and in turn they reaped great benefits.

(Maybe you can use Vocoli to build an intrapreneurial culture in your company)

Lockheed Martin
Idea: It wouldn’t be a post about intrapreneurship without the famous “Skunk Works” project. Skunk Works is another name for Advanced Development Programs or ADP. Lockheed Martin basically allowed Kelly Johnson, Skunk Works founder, to work as an autonomous organization with a small, focused team.

Benefit: Skunk Works created some of the most innovative aircraft models, including the SR71. Moral of the story: if you have an intrapreneur like Johnson in your organization, don’t fight back. Instead, give them the support and resources they need to thrive. Lockheed Martin learned early that successful intrapreneurship happens whenteam members are allowed to define a clear path with their idea and they are given the power to modify and innovate as needed without a crazy approval process. Most big innovations need to be modified throughout their development.


Texas Instruments
Idea: A TI researcher, Larry Hornbeck, had been experimenting with technology using tiny mirrors to redirect photons for almost a decade. In 1987, Hornbeck and his team developed Digital Micromirror Device. DMD was used for printing airline tickets at first but soon after TI started an internal venture called Digital Imaging Venture Project to expand on the efforts.

Benefit: For a long time, video projectors weighed the equivalent to a small child and cost upwards of $15,000. Hornbeck realized this technology could greatly decrease the size and cost of the digital projector and it soon became an industry standard. He even received an Emmy award for Outstanding Achievement in Engineering Development, talk about some serious intrapreneurial bragging rights.


Massachusetts Department of Correction
Idea: A guard suggested a change in the way Massachusetts Department of Correction stored their inmate photos. Instead of taking pictures with film and storing them the old fashioned way, why not use digital cameras and use a database for image storing.

Benefit: The department has sixteen correctional facilities and in the first year of implementation alone it saved $56,000 dollars on film and most likely a lot of clerical headache. Side note—if you haven’t read Ideas are Free there are many examples like this one, small ideas can be just as beneficial as sweeping innovation efforts.


W.L. Gore
Idea: W.L Gore (who most people know from Gore-Tex fabric) gives employees “dabble time” or 10% of their work day to develop new ideas and work on personal projects. One employee, Dave Myers, identified that one of their products, ePTFE a coating for push-pull cables, could be used for comfortable to use guitar strings.

Benefit: The coated strings proved to only be marginally more comfortable but they kept their tone longer than conventional guitar strings. After W.L. Gore launched them under the brand name ELIXIR Strings, they are now the No. 1 selling acoustic guitar string.


Google
Idea: Just like W.L .Gore, Google allows time for personal projects. Some of Google’s best projects come out of their 20 percent time policy. One of these is something you probably use multiple times a day, Gmail.

Benefit: Paul Buchheit, the creator of Gmail, started on the project in 2001 and worked up to its launch on April 1, 2004 (April Fools but not really.) Gmail became the first email with a successful search feature and the option to keep all of your email (hello 1GB of storage) instead of frantically deleting to stay under your limit. The initial launch was by invite only, quite the hot commodity. Now, it’s considered a faux pas not to have an email address ending in @gmail.com.


Shutterstock
Idea: Every year, Shutterstock hosts an annual hack-a-thon over the span of 24-hours (plus 4 hours of demo presentations at the end.)These challenges are designed to allow employees to pursue any ideas they have for the betterment of the company. Why should you host a hack-a-thon? They encourage collaboration, creativity, and innovation—some of the best qualities of engaged employees.

Benefit: Awesome ideas come out of these hack-a-thons, they save money, increase revenue and improve processes. To name a few projects that were born at hack-a-thons: Spectrum—an awesome user experience tool that allows you to search through Shutterstock only using color. Oculus—a data analysis tool that came out of the 2012 hack-a-thon and is now used at Shutterstock every day.


3M
Idea: Sometimes, intrapreneurship happens by accident. Dr. Spencer Silver, a scientist at 3M, was attempting to create an extremely strong adhesive to use in aerospace technology. Instead, he accidentally created a light adhesive that stuck to surfaces well but didn’t leave a nasty residue.

Benefit: Instead of throwing away this idea because it didn’t solve the problem at hand, he stuck with it until he found a use for it. After many years of persistence and spreading the word it finally clicked with someone else, Art Fry—another 3M scientist. He thought back to one of Silvers seminars and they began to develop a product together. Post-It notes were born and if you are the vast majority of desk workers you’re probably looking at a pad of them right now.


Sun Microsystems
Idea: Patrick Naughton, a developer, almost left Sun in 1995 because he believed they were missing out on the fast-growing PC consumer market. He was convinced to stay and help Sun set up a group dedicated to the consumer market. This is where group member, James Gosling, created an elegant object-oriented programming language called Oak, which was later renamed Java.

Benefit: This was initially created to help set up Time Warner cable boxes. When that deal fell through, Bill Joy, co-founder of Sun, recognized the value of Java and that it could be implemented across all different platforms. As you know, Sun has since merged into Oracle and Java now runs the world with 930 million Java Runtime Environment downloads each year and 3 billion mobile phones run on Java.

Sony
Idea: Ken Kutaragi, a relatively junior Sony Employee, spent hours tinkering with his daughters Nintendo to make it more powerful and user friendly. What came from his work is one of the most recognizable brands in the world today, The Sony Playstation.

Benefit: Many Sony bosses were outraged at his work, thinking that gaming is a complete waste of time. Luckily someone in a senior position saw the value in the product and thankfully so, because now Sony is one of the world leaders in the prosperous gaming industry. This shows that company leaders should always be open to innovation—no matter how farfetched and pointless it may seem.

Facebook
Idea: Originally called the “awesome button,” the Facebook Like button was first prototyped in one of Facebook’s infamous hack-a-thons.

Benefit: Facebook has never released statistics based on the like rate and certain time frames. But to all of us in the computer using world it is pretty evident how the invention of the like button affects us on a daily basis. Companies like Facebook, who are constantly innovating and changing, are some of the most successful out there.

As you can see, great ideas and products and came result from letting your employees think, experiment, and play. How you do this is different for every company. An official “20% time” rule works at some organizations, while hack-a-thons are a better idea for others. What’s important is that you embrace the overall goal of engaging employees, and choose a system for applying that vision that fits with your company culture.

To solve a big question, you first have to focus on the user you’re solving it for–then everything else will follow. So we go out in the field and talk to people. We collect users’ stories, emotions, and ideas. We learn to get comfortable with silence. We watch, listen, and empathize. You can’t just understand your users’ needs–you need to actually relate to them.

For example, I recently visited our customers in Canada, Brazil, and India. By observing and talking with them, I realized that what we generically call “mobility” means very different things depending on where you are. In Canada, mobility means instant collaboration from your desk, the coffee shop, or your kitchen table. In Brazil, where users spend a lot of time in commute, a great interface and voice control underpin the concept of mobility. In India, where connectivity may be a challenge in some areas, a critical aspect of mobility is working offline.

Obviously, there’s no way we could’ve learned that without making the effort to find it out. And that’s something many brainstorming sessions get wrong right off the bat–they get everyone but the user into a room together to start throwing ideas around. But that’s actually Step 2, not Step 1.

THINK 10X
Being able to describe an idea in less than six words helps you clarify it.
Now that you’re armed with information to base your brainstorm around, you can get down to thinking–but not just any thinking. The notion of “10x thinking” is pretty familiar in the business world by now, and it’s at the heart of how we innovate at Google. It’s about trying to improve something by 10 times rather than by 10%. One example is Project Loon, our initiative for providing internet access to everyone: An incremental solution would be to just install more fibers, whereas a “10x” idea is Project Loon–a network of balloons traveling on the edge of space, designed to connect people in rural and remote areas and help fill the hardest-to-reach gaps in coverage.

The next step is to have all participants write down their ideas individually before getting back together as a group and deciding which ones to pursue. Here’s the thing to understand before you do that, though: 10x thinking sounds great in theory, but not everyone quite knows how to put it into action. So when team members reconvene with their sticky notes and the most productive part of the brainstorming process kicks into gear, make sure to follow these six guidelines:

Build on each others’ ideas. It’s easy to kill an idea, so especially in the early stages, systematically follow up ideas with, “yes, and” instead of shooting them down with “no, but” comments.
Generate lots of ideas. At this point quantity is more important than quality, so really let loose. Time to grab a pile of sticky notes or your favorite note-taking app. The best way to have a great idea is to have many ideas.
Write headlines. Being able to describe an idea in less than six words helps you clarify it. Imagine your favorite media outlet or magazine covers your great idea: What would you want the headline to read?
Illustrate. Pictures are usually louder than words and harder to misinterpret.
Think big. Invite bold, intrepid ideas–yes, this is the “10x” part–not incremental solutions. As Frederik Pferdt, Google’s head of innovation and creativity, likes to say, “Just beyond crazy is fabulous!”
Defer judgment. Don’t judge ideas in the midst of brainstorming (remember Rule #1) but let them grow so you can build on them and iterate.

PROTOTYPE
Then it’s time to take action. Most brainstorming sessions end with an agreement to have another meeting later, to take those ideas and work them up further. It’s a common mistake. You want to strike when the iron is hot–you don’t want to walk away or agree to follow talk with more talk.

Here at Google, we like to build a quick prototype pretty much right away. It doesn’t have to be perfect, just a physical manifestation of an idea that’s designed strictly to answer the most immediate questions and test our first assumptions about an idea that seems promising.

When it comes to details, we’ve found we can always fake it, so as much as possible, we like to actually make it. When you can hold your ideas in your hands, you can start to test and learn from them.

NOW WATCH THESE GOOGLERS BRAINSTORM
At the Googleplex in Mountain View, California, the Google Garage is a shared space where people can go and experiment, using anything from scrap materials to 3-D printers. We also host some of our Creative Skills for Innovation Labs in this space.

So we decided to offer a virtual-reality glimpse inside our creative process. All you need is your phone and Google Cardboard–or any other VR gear–for this immersive experience. But if you don’t have access to those devices, your desktop and a mouse with YouTube 360 will do just fine.

. Fire (400,000 BCE) – The controlled use of fire was pioneered in the early Stone Ages, with some of the earliest evidence dating back to 400,000 BCE.

Language (100,000 BCE) – True semantic, phonetic language was first being used around 100,000 BCE, making it a lot easier to pass on how-to knowledge and speed up the spread of innovation.

Trade and specialization (17,000 BCE) – The first known instance of humans trading with other humans comes from New Guinea around 17,000 BCE, where locals exchanged obsidian for other needed goods. Trading merchants were, of course, the original entrepreneurs.

Read also: The history of entrepreneurship

Farming (15,000 BCE) – Around 15,000 BCE, the first animal domestication began taking place, and around 10,000 BCE, the first domestication of plants. Instead of having to be a nomadic species, we could finally settle in one place.

The whip (4000 BCE) – Around 4,000 BCE, the ancient Egyptians were making wooden sailboats. The advent of the ship was a huge step forward for humanity because it enabled commerce between different parts of the world.

The wheel (3400 BCE) – The next significant step in the history of innovation came with the creation of the wheel, sometime between 3300 and 3500 BCE.

Money (3000 BCE) – Around 3000 BCE, the Sumerians were one of the first societies (if not the first) to begin using money for the exchange of goods, replacing the barter system.

Iron (3000 BCE) – The whole science of metallurgy began around 4400 BCE when human civilizations began to merge copper and tin to form bronze. Around 3000 BCE we found an even stronger substance called iron, which gave rise to a new age of human history.

Written language (2900 BCE) – The invention of written language was extremely important because it made written records and numerical calculations possible. The first recorded written language was Sumerian cuneiform, which started around 2900 BCE.

The legal system (1780 BCE) –  In 1780 BCE, Hammurabi, the sixth king of Babylon, was one of the first to write down a formalized code of laws. He created a structure that enabled his people to understand what the societal norms were.

The alphabet (1050 BCE) – The first “true alphabet” (containing vowels as well as consonants) was created by the Phoenicians around 1050 BCE. Many modern alphabets evolved from the Phoenician alphabet.

Steel (650 BCE) – The earliest known production of steel is a piece of ironware from Western Asia about 4,000 years old. The Spartans used steel extensively around 650 BCE, as did the Chinese from 400 BCE.

Water power (200 BCE) – The next great innovation was water power, first used in the Fertile Crescent area in the Middle East. This breakthrough enabled enormous transformations in our ability to harness power.

Paper  – Moving into the common era (CE) calendar, we saw the creation of paper, which was first used by the Chinese around the year 105. With paper, knowledge could spread much more easily.

Movable type  – When Gutenberg invented his printing press in 1436, following the invention of type in imperial China in 1040, he was able to mass-produce books.

The microscope  – Back in 1592, Dutch spectacle makers Zacharias and Hans, a father and son team, discovered that nearby objects appeared greatly enlarged when looking through a specially shaped lens, creating the first known microscope.

Electricity  – Going forward to 1600, English scientist William Gilbert coined the term electricity, which originated from the Greek word for amber. Later, in 1752, Benjamin Franklin showed that lightning and the spark from amber were one and the same substance: electricity.

The telescope  – In 1608, Hans Lippershey created a convex lens and concave eyepiece that enabled the creation of the telescope. The next year, Galileo Galilei built on these early designs to create a much more powerful telescope that enabled us to understand our place in the universe.

The engine  – The steam engine was first invented by Thomas Newcomen in 1712, and was tremendously important in powering the machinery that drove the Industrial Revolution.

The light bulb  – In 1800, Humphry Davy, an English scientist, created the first light bulb. It was improved in 1879 by Thomas Edison, who discovered that a certain type of carbon filament, when placed in a bulb without oxygen, could glow for 40 hours.

The telegraph  – In 1809, the first crude telegraph was invented in Bavaria by Samuel Soemmering. Samuel Morse, creator of the Morse code, invented the telegraph communication system that ended up a commercial success.

The electromagnet  – In 1825, the electric magnet was discovered by British inventor William Sturgeon. His first magnet was an iron horseshoe wrapped with copper wire with a current passed through it.

Petroleum  – In 1859, petroleum was discovered. Petroleum was one of the most efficient substances in terms of the amount of energy that could be expended per ounce of liquid when burned. The discovery of petroleum led to the gas-powered car half a century later.

The telephone  – In 1860, the telephone was invented by Johann Philipp Reis. He was the first to produce a functioning electromagnetic device that could transmit understandable sounds. Sixteen years later, Alexander Graham Bell received the first patent for commercially successful telephones.

The vacuum tube  – In 1883, Thomas Edison discovered that an electrical current could actually travel through gas or a vacuum. Ten years later, Lee De Forest invented the Audion to control and amplify the current, an innovation that became critically important to telecommunication.

Semiconductors  – In 1896, the first semiconductors were discovered. A semiconductor is simply material that has electrical conductivity due to flowing electrons. Today, silicon serves as the main component for most commercially produced semiconductors.

Penicillin  – In 1896, the French medical student Ernest Duchesne discovered the antibiotic properties of penicillium. It took until 1928 for Scottish biologist Alexander Fleming to re-discover it. Penicillin enables doctors to fight bacterial infections, and cure syphilis, gangrene and tuberculosis.

The radio  – In 1897, Nikolai Tesla applied for and received the first radio system patent after demonstrating it the year before at the World’s Fair. Radio took advantage of the amazing invisible parts of the electromagnetic spectrum to transmit information through waves.

The electron  – That same year, 1897, Joseph John Thomson discovered the electron, which has revolutionized the world in the last 115 years.

Quantum physics  – Quantum physics came in 1900 with Max Planck’s quantum hypothesis that any energy-radiating atomic system can be divided into individual energy elements. In 1905, Albert Einstein theorized and later proved that light is made up of individual quantum particles, later termed photons by Gilbert Lewis.

The airplane  –  In 1903, we saw the invention of the airplane by the Wright brothers, Orville and Wilbur, on the North Carolina coast with the first successful flight of a manned machine occurring on December 17th.

Television  – John Logie Baird invented the first televised moving images in 1926. Ten years later, the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) broadcast the first public television show.

The transistor  – 1947 saw the creation of the transistor. A transistor is a device that’s used to amplify and switch electronic signals, to exchange information over a distance.

DNA  – In 1953, James Watson and Francis Crick discovered that the correct model for DNA structure was the double helix model, then famously walked into a local pub and exclaimed, “We have found the secret of life.”

The integrated circuit  – It was Jack Kilby of Texas Instruments and Robert Noyce of Fairchild Semiconductor, along with their teams, who created the first integrated circuits in 1959. All computers eventually ended up using integrated circuits, which later developed into microprocessors.

The internet  – In 1969, we saw the creation of the early Internet, called the ARPANET, which was built by the United States Department of Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (then called ARPA, today called DARPA) to connect researchers. The World Wide Web became a communication tool that formed a constantly updated record of human knowledge and expression.

Microprocessors  –  In 1971, Ted Hoff of Intel created the microprocessor, which was an integrated circuit. In a tiny space, it had all the functions of the computer or a central processing unit (CPU) on it.

The mobile phone  – In 1973, Motorola launched the first handheld mobile phone. The first prototype weighed 2.5 pounds, offered 30 minutes of talk time, and featured a battery that took ten hours to recharge.

The smartphone  – On January 9th, 2007, the iPhone launched. It was the first widely available smartphone with multi-touch capabilities. The multi-touch smartphone paved the way for the tablet and the coming convergence of the laptop, tablet and smartphone as well as new hybrids such as cloud-connected glasses and smartwatches.

The quantum computer  – In 2011, the first quantum computer was brought to market by D-wave. Quantum computers use superposition and entanglement to solve some computing problems thousands of times faster than traditional computers.
Cleardekho
ClearDekho is India’s largest eyewear brand that provides eyewear for all budgets. Their quality glasses come with various designs ranging from prescription, sunglasses, reading glasses and even contact lenses.






The Minimalist
One of the most successful startups Minimalist is a design and consulting agency that

helps brands create their growth strategy, design, and communication as well. They are most known for their unique minimalist creative philosophy and viral impact in digital media.





Razorpay
Razorpay is the only payments solution in India which allows businesses to accept, process and disburse payments with its user-friendly product suite to all companies from startups to large enterprises.




Razorpay

Nineleaps
Nineleaps helps other startups with their product development by providing web and mobile app development to accelerate product development to bring your product to market as fast as possible.






Innov8 Coworking

This company is a coworking network that offers working spaces like that emphasis heavily community engagement of like-minded individuals to have their office spaces not feel like an ordinary office space but another place you can almost call home.





Schbang

Schbang is a digital marketing agency that has worked with well-known brands such as Hot Wheels, Amazon Fashion, and Raw Pressery. They offer more services than your average agency ranging from, Search Engine Optimization, Technology, Design, Video Production, Photography, Media Planning & Buying, Influencer Management, and PR.






Acko General Insurance
Acko a digital insurance firm provides personalized policies based on user behavior and offer great prices, extreme convenience, and stress-free claims.




The free newsletter marketers *actually* read.
Stacked Marketer provides you with carefully curated industry news, tech, and actionable advice — it’s a 100% free jam-packed 5-minute daily read.

Treebo Hotels
A newly startup company Treebo is India’s top rated budget hotel chain with 400 hotels in over 70 cities that has grown fast since its launch in 2015.

InCred
Incred is a financial service group that leverages technology and data science to make lending quick and easy. The idea behind Incred is their belief that traditional ways of lending exclude the most that need it most because of outdated, rigid, and insufficient processes.

Jumbotail
Jumbotail an online grocery marketplace for businesses. This startup that started in 2015 has also offer credit for shop owners via partnerships with third-party lenders.

DocTalk
Docktalk one of India’s biggest startups is a CRM and patient management platform for doctors in India. Mainly, this company gifts doctors with the ability to develop better relationships with their patients in return causing a better quality of care with

Smallcase
This fast-growing business in India is bringing a simplified investing approach to the growing middle class in India. In retrospect, they are very similar to other investment companies that are growing at a fast rate such as Acrons and Stash.

Vedantu
Vedantu aims to democratize teaching by creating a marketplace for teachers. This top growing business in India being similar to Vipkid offers a massive range of online classes and test preparations live from the best teachers in India.

Instavans
Instavans model is to transform the conventional model of shippers spending hours calling up various truck operators to find trucks with open capacity, while truckers struggle to market their availability. By offering a model that shippers an on-demand platform for shippers and truckers alike.

Loan Frame
One of the best Indian startups Loan Frame is a financial tech company that is building the largest SME( small, medium-sized enterprises) in the lending marketplace. By merging world-class processes from leading global banks with deep Indian SME credit experience, data science and cutting edge proprietary technologies, they are laser-focused on helping small businesses grow.

Overcart
Overcart is India's first marketplace for over-stock, unboxed, refurbished, and pre-owned products. Just like the united states company Overstock, offers a comprehensive quality-check process, expert product knowledge, and unparalleled customer focus, this is the safest place for you India to purchase secondary products.

Flock
Flock is a real-time messaging and collaboration app for teams that speeds up and simplifies communication and boosts productivity. Flock provides one-on-one chat and public and private channels. It offers multi-party video and audio calling and screen sharing. It also integrates with over forty third-party apps including Google Drive, Github, Trello, Asana and many others.

Doctor Insta
Doctors Insta’s business model is to fix the current state of accessibility, reliability, and consistency in India’s $100 Billion HealthCare Market and to bring Healthcare to everyone. This amazing startup is India's 1st video medicine company where an individual can consult care-givers anytime, anywhere.

Cowrks
CoWrks is a premium coworking solution provider for businesses of all sizes. Built for startups, and Fortune 500s with beautiful, inspiring, and high-energy work environment that will change the way they work forever.

1Mg
1mg is an online pharmacy network and generic medicine engine. It allows users to find information about medicines prescribed by doctors and buy them as well. Users can find drugs by categories under ailments, class, companies, and brands. Its mission is to make healthcare accessible, understandable and affordable for a billion Indians.

Cars24
Cars24 makes selling a car an easy, fair and quick experience. This new startup creates an efficient and reliable way for car owners to sell their used cars at the Best Price

Dailyhunt
Dailyhunt is India’s #1 news and local language content application. Their goal is to build a platform product for Indian language speakers and onboard more publishers & partners, in addition to investing in building tools and team for monetisation.


Ebutor
Ebutor is an organized distribution network of India that helps brands distribute consumer goods to mom-and-pop retail stores. Ebutor uses technology, data sciences and its vast network of distribution centers and fulfillment centers to reach the farthest and smallest of retail stores across India.

Meesho
Meesho is India's Largest Reseller Platform, poised to be the next big e-commerce distribution channel, where homepreneurs sell on WhatsApp, Facebook. and Instagram.

MilkBasket
Milkbasket is India's first subscription-based micro-delivery service fulfilling daily grocery and household needs of customers every morning.

PharmEasy
This successful Indian startup is one of the largest pharmacy aggregators in India. We help patients connect with local pharmacy stores and diagnostic centers in order to fulfill their extensive medical needs.

Policybazaar
Policybazaar is India's largest and leading insurance aggregator website. They specialized in making a comparative analysis of the insurance products of various insurance policies based on price, quality and key benefits.

Revv
Revv is an Indian car-rental startup that offers multiple options to meet all your self-drive needs from round Trips, one-way outstation, one-way local, monthly car subscription.

Sharechat
ShareChat is the fastest growing social network in India. With ShareChat you can share videos, jokes, GIFs, audio songs and funny images from India in Indian languages like Hindi, Telugu, Marathi, and Malayalam.

Nykaa
Nykaa is a premier online beauty and wellness destination. It offers beauty and wellness products for men and women at the best prices. Their products are 100 percent genuine and authentic, sourced directly from the brands.

Toppr
Toppr is India's top startups in 2018 leading after-school learning app on a mission to make learning personalized. Toppr helps students prepare for various school, board, and competitive exams. They study student behavior and create adaptive learning paths with infinite combinations.

TravelTriangle
TravelTriangle is an exciting new way of buying trips online in India. One of the best-growing companies in India, TravelTriangle promote local travel agents and get you the best flights from them. They have created a marketplace where travelers can interact with local travel agents. That same marketplace also empowers local travel agents to come online and compete with big fishes..

Urban Ladder
Urban Ladder is a Bangalore-based online furniture company. This hot Indian startup furniture company aims to provide a curated destination for home solutions, to help the Urban Indian build well-furnished, beautiful homes.

Aisle
This dating app puts the target on romance over flings. They connect people who are willing to date with other eligible people who are willing to get into a meaningful relationship.

&Me
This Indian startup is a women's food and nutrition company based out of Bangalore. It is carefully blending ancient Ayurveda with modern science to make products that match the active lifestyle of this generation's women.

Bombay Shaving Company
Bombay Shaving Company provides a guide to men’s grooming and lifestyle. They give inspiring grooming tips and ideas that make everyday life better.

POPxo
POPxo is a digital media startup for women that deals with everything from fashion, beauty, lifestyle, work, etc. POPxo provides text and video content in an accessible manner. This successful Indian startup focuses on reaching a highly targeted audience - the millions of young urban women in India who are growing in confidence, in independence, and spending power. They monetize by working across formats with brands who want to reach this important and influential consumer base.

Zestmoney
ZestMoney is the fastest way for all kinds of people to pay using digital EMI(equated monthly installment), without the need for a credit card or a credit score. This major startups in India believe that being able to pay in EMI should be available to everyone and not only those who hold a credit card or have a credit score.

Xpressbees
Xpressbees is an e-commerce logistics specialist company that provides reliable and fast logistics solutions to its partners. This technology startup in India extensive has network reach, secure technology platform and last mile management system makes them one of the most trusted e-commerce logistics solutions provider in India.
